Okay, I'm going.
He said to you.
He said they aren't worth a damn for turning, for selling.
They had library marks, and they're too... So he knew a little bit about it.
They were too unique to sell.
See, what had happened is Shin had gotten busted, and his wife had, through connections he had, approached somebody who approached DeFabio,
for some quick money to get his bail to get him out, and he looked at the books and rejected them.
He says, I can't turn them and make any money, but he knew about it.
He'd met his wife, and you see, Sin got busted.
His wife was staying there, and I don't know.
According to DeFabio, they didn't get all the books.
Somebody else bought them, loaned her the money, and then some of them were exchanged, like, for a plea arrangement because he pled, but they didn't get them all, but he looked at
Shortly after he'd been arrested, like they, you know, he got, he, like, jumped bond and they found more of them, but, like, he got arrested and they seized what was in the motel, but there was another cash somewhere in the area that DeFabio looked at and wouldn't loan any money on.
So, but, where'd you get the shim catalog?
Oh, uh, out west.
Uh-huh.
In the open stacks.
Just in the open space?
Yes.
That's interesting, and that's like a computerized thing too, right?
Yeah.
But it isn't very complete.
It's a complete... It's completed, I guess I could make it.
Yeah, but it was just...
Is that something on fire over there?
It looks like a burn off of gas.
That's a refinery.
I'm sure you could probably get that.
It's not a rarity.
I know that.
I was just curious about why they entered it into evidence and why you had it and why you particularly were interested in it.
I thought you might articulate it for me.
But I wanted to pass on that little information about that the books were... An underworld figure was approached on lending money.
And I personally... Yeah, I personally knew this guy in the penitentiary.
So I don't know if she and himself... What did this guy DeFavio say to you?
Was he amused by your... Well, he said, well, why didn't you get into jewels or something that was more liquid?
You know, why... And what did you just tell them?
Well, I told him I wasn't interested in selling them.
You know, he said, a man of your talents has wasted it on books.
That's wonderful.
And this is from inside the penitentiary.
Nobody could get it.
The only way you get an interview with the Fabio is you get busted going to the penitentiary.
I looked him up in this mob book, and he's in there with, he was a friend of Tony Solano's.
He was another guy that was in there.
Now, what?
Did you look after Fabio, or did he look you up?
We both kind of... Yeah, yeah.
Now, were these guys kind of interested in you?
Oh, yeah, yeah.
There were a lot of people in the penitentiary industry.
They thought, oh, wow, $20 million.
Why didn't you offer stuff, you know?
And you always had to say the same thing, but I didn't want to sell them, right?
Yeah, and I thought I was crazy.
Because you loved them.
Yeah.
Let's see, again, it's all bibliomania.
That's a great story.
Thanks for telling me that story.
I like that.
It's sort of an anenda to the Shin affair.
I will not probably name the Fabio in my story.
I would just say a well-known mafia chief, because I don't want to screw around with these guys either.
Yeah, look up to Fabio in the mafia, but he don't.
Yeah, don't show around with him.
In fact, I got to be such good friends with him, I gave him my name and address, and he's going to be out in about three years.
He had some people heisting antiques around Cleveland from these estates and stuff, and he was an antique and somewhat of a book lover.
He told me he'd gotten some stuff from the Cleveland Public Library.
I don't know if it was legitimate or illegitimate.
He built this big house and built this library, and there were these custom-built walnut bookcases.
He wanted these nice books in there.
He was a connoisseur of more antiques and stuff.
So we got to be buddies.
He was sort of like Saturday afternoon, I'd go sit out in the yard with Martin.
That was his first name, Martin?
Martin B. Fabio, yeah.
Was he a gentleman?
I mean, to meet him, would you recognize him as a mobster?
Not a scholar.
No, he was, yeah, by what he did, he more or less loaned money for gambling and that kind of stuff.
Yeah.
But he appreciated nice things.
Did he have the respect of the other people at the penitentiary?
Oh, very much so.
He didn't even sit with those guys.
Like, for instance, their terms were, I went back to 10 building and people looked at me and said, how do you grade?
And I said, what do you mean?
He said, well, you were sitting with the Fabio and Salerno.
They looked like nice old guys.
I didn't know who they were.
They said, well, for instance,
the toads can't even sit near there.
And I said, well, what do they mean by toads?
And that's black people.
I guess if a black man would go and even sit with those people casually, they'd be, because there were young guys all around there.
These are old men, but they're sort of young guys who are like bodyguards.
And unless you're accepted, you know, you're sitting at picketeers, unless you're accepted by this group,
You're kindly asked to leave, and if you don't cooperate, there are more.
It would be in your best interest.
Yeah.
But I would just, they were curious of me.
So they invited you to join them.
Yeah.
Yeah, so I had them as buddies to talk to in there, you know.
And I, you know, here I buy this book on the mafia figures, and I find a couple of names in there.
sort of like nice old guys they don't dress any different old men that i talked to i hadn't even i knew salerno was i hadn't even realized you know yeah but it's interesting of his affiliations and his connection with the shin affair that little tidbit well he he knew it though huh oh yeah see one of the some of the one of the things i would say
Shin, he bought a lot of stuff for Japanese collectors, too.
Have you ever heard that?
For offshore collectors.
Oh, oh, he fenced it off to him, huh?
He stole to order, I guess.
He was given, like, a punch list, and he would go hit it, you know?
That's what they say.
They must have the connections to offered if you move to Fabio and need to raise some money quick.
There's some things you don't want to get too deeply into.
I mean, as far as I'm concerned.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
Health and happiness is too important, you know.
In a way that made me feel good in there, I knew by the group that I was accepted by in there, I would be... I had another fellow who was a money...
launderer who was sort of a would associate with me he was a fella antiquer from up in quincy he got some trouble for money laundering and different things but he was a great big guy and he and i kind of got to be friends and he sort of was like my heavy i was in the chow hall and i sneezed i had a terrible cold on a black guy's food across from me and it was my fault
The guy got irate, and I apologized.
I said, I'll go up and get you some more food.
This is my fault.
And this friend of mine, his name's Brian Watson, threw a silverware down.
He said, I don't like the company we're sitting next to.
And I said, well, it's my fault.
I'll straighten it out.
I had the black guy calm down.
He said, I'm not going to tolerate this.
This black guy got irate.
And he said, any time, any time, these guards all rest up, and we walk off with our trays,
And he said, you just come at me in the yard, you know?
And this guy was... He was going.
He was getting serious.
Yeah, and it was all over something I'd done, and it was my fault.
I had sneezed on this fellow's group, but this guy, I could see I had a guardian angel in the penitentiary, you know?
I don't know if it was, you know, it was partly through my conduct, but you have stature in there somewhat by your crying, you know?
Yeah.
So they were kind of intrigued by it.
Yeah, the dollar figure.
But also the verve, I guess.
Yeah.
You know, I wasn't another bank robber or a kidnapper or something.
He doesn't attend for $20 million in books, isn't he?
You've got to know your titles, too.
I've been waiting for the arrow, but I don't know.
Uh-oh, I'll have to wait.
Hello.
Yeah, I thought you'd like to know that about that little thing about Shin.
I think some of Shin's books did get away.
Oh, yeah, I know.
And they're not all recovered.
Yeah.
Well, was it Moffat that figured him out?
Was it Moffat that broke this?
Yeah, yes.
Shin was a clutch using his razor blade, and a staff member's seen him, and he panicked.
It was different than my thing in Riverside.
I blocked my way through that.
Was that right?
All the way through...
the indictment and the conviction, and I've left my way out of it.
They had to set me up.
They never did catch me.
Well, no way.
How did they catch you?
What happened?
With the snitch.
I mean, in Riverside, what happened out there?
What do you mean you've left it?
You actually, if that had been on their toes, it should have been all over right there, shouldn't it?
No, I, well, of course, I didn't have any material.
I was just caught browsing.
With utensils.
But I hadn't used the utensils.
Because they were on your person, right?
You're taking this home, you can make a left right up here.
Oh, okay.
At that bar up here, in that white building.
Yeah, okay.
Well, they claimed they were utensils, but I hadn't used them, or I wasn't in the process to use them.
My briefcase is kind of cluttered.
I had a couple of metal strips and a dental pick, and I'd been using the dental pick on this occasion.
for cleaning the grouting around the stained glass window canes.
And I had a different method.
Did you actually eat a stamp?
Yeah, I had to.
And then how did you get the thing out of there?
What?
Did it just stay inside your body?
No, I chewed it up.
You chewed it up?
Yeah.
What was going through your mind if you were doing that?
They wouldn't find it.
Hi.
Thanks a lot for dating everybody.
Yeah, buddy.
See you, Adam.
You want their address?
Send them one of your newspaper articles.
Say hi to Jerry, will you?
I need a place to run when the shit hits.
You want me to call Ray?
Yeah, why don't you?
You want me to tell him I was with you?
Okay.
They're probably, my father's looking for me, I believe, but we wouldn't have got, I don't know when we would have got this chance, and if we would have with Ray or Rhonda, you couldn't have met the young people, because they were part of my life, too.
You lived a day of my life.
I could tell you this, Ray probably, they would have sat and listened to every question I asked him.
Yeah, but these guys wouldn't have been as open and you wouldn't have got the relationship.
I don't know as you and I could have been able to speak as frankly and as kind as we did.
Well, I trust you.
Thank you.
And we're in that trust.
Break my trust in my fellow man.
I mean, it's stung again, but I just can't let it do that.
Let's see, I hold 825, so... It's been a full day, my friend.
Yeah, thank you.
And here we are in Des Moines, Iowa.
Yeah, it was brought back...
I was able to come to life again today for a short while.
Keep the faith.
I wish you were on the jury.
They did talk to me after two seconds.
I mean, if they found out, you know, my book background.
That was one of the questions they asked them, right?
You love books, you collect things.
It is interesting they ask those questions, right?
Yeah.
Are psychiatrists asking questions about the love of books and stuff like that?
Do they ask you to... Well, they know it's... Why do you do this and what do you think of it?
They're not people filed.
They don't know.
They're very interested in what the hell they have to say.
Yeah.
This has been an unexpected... unexpected...
spectacular day.
Well, like I say, I felt sorry for your calling and sort of being neglected.
I thought, well, here's a guy that I think would accept me and develop a patriot and understanding person.
Maybe I can be a psychologist, you know?
It's a beautiful movie, isn't it?
Yeah.
Yeah, it is.
They built that over a 20-year period of time as the state.
They started in 1870, and as the state got funds, they kept building more and more.
It was built between 1870 and 1886.
How do you know all that?
I read it.
Is there anything you don't know about things like this?
You don't know?
It's got four domes, which makes it quite unusual.
It looks like something that should be a pavilion that's fair more than a table.
It's sort of a festive-looking place.
So you think your dad's in town by now?
Oh, I'm sure he is.
He's probably looking all over the place.
They all are.
But I don't want to know him.
Or I'll just tell him I want to.
Tell him what.
Are you going to mention me?
It's up to you.
I don't know.
You mentioned to Ray.
I'm not going to tell him.
So I'm not even going to call him now.
You want me to call him?
Call him, yeah.
You want me to call Ray and tell him what?
I don't think we did anything wrong.
I don't know.
Don't worry about it.
And a wild friend too.
I think he's fine.
I like him a lot.
Yeah, I do too.
And I'm not being patronizing in any way.
He's been very good to me.
Yeah, I know he is.
And I like him.
Oh, shit.
Listen, I'll just go down here and leave me and I'll walk across.
Oh, all right.
Yeah, just leave me here in this lot.
Maybe that's even better.
No, all right.
Why should you go to the front?
They're probably staking that place out looking for it.
You know?
Just drop me right here.
Give me two seconds to get my stuff.
And my friend.
Thank you.
I hope we can be friends and spend some more time here.
I think we are friends.
Maybe someday I can come out to Mass and travel.
I'd like you to meet my wife and my daughters.
Maybe we go booking up in New England.
That's fun.
Oh, I know it is.
We've got a lot of nice little old...
bookstores and new bookstores.
Yeah, I used to do it in upstate New York.
That's right.
We were in with Maine, but for some reason, there was wonderful bookstores.
I was through Maine about this time of year, and everything's closed up there.
Yeah, but I'm full of numbers.
Yeah, yeah.
Listen, you've got to run.